docs/getting-started/index.md, before:

# F´ A Flight Software and Embedded Systems Framework

## Overview
F´ (F Prime) is a component-driven framework that enables rapid development and deployment of spaceflight and other embedded software applications. Originally developed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, F´ has been successfully deployed on several space applications. It is tailored but not limited to small-scale spaceflight systems such as CubeSats, SmallSats, and instruments.

F´ has the following features:

- Component architecture with well-defined interfaces
- C++ framework providing core capabilities like queues, threads, and operating-system abstraction
- Tools for designing systems and automatically generating code from systems design
- A standard library of flight-worthy components
- Testing tools for unit and system-level testing

## F´ External Resources
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/nasa/fprime)
- [Discussions](https://github.com/nasa/fprime/discussions)
- [Issues](https://github.com/nasa/fprime/issues)
- [Community GitHub Organization](https://github.com/fprime-community)


## Further References

To start with F´, follow the [installation guide](installing-fprime.md). Then follow our [tutorials](../documentation/tutorials/index.md), or inspect our [reference applications](https://github.com/fprime-community#references).

Commit message:

Clean up getting started guide (#3061)

docs/getting-started/index.md, after:

---
hide:
  - toc
---

# Getting Started with F Prime

F´ (F Prime) is a component-driven framework that enables rapid development and deployment of spaceflight and other embedded software applications. Originally developed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, F´ has been successfully deployed on several space applications. It is tailored but not limited to small-scale spaceflight systems such as CubeSats, SmallSats, and instruments.

F´ has the following features:

- Component architecture with well-defined interfaces
- C++ framework providing core capabilities like queues, threads, and operating-system abstraction
- Tools for designing systems and automatically generating code from systems design
- A standard library of flight-worthy components
- Testing tools for unit and system-level testing

## Hello, World!

New users should start with the [Hello World tutorial](../tutorials-hello-world/docs/hello-world//). This tutorial walks through the F´ installation process, how to create a new project and how to design, implement, and test a basic F Prime application.


## Further References

Here are some additional references to continue learning about F´:
- [More tutorials](../documentation/tutorials/)
- [F´ User Manual](../documentation/user-manual/)
